README.md, before:

# 🙉 diagBruit 🙉

Remettre le bruit comme un critère important dans la construction des projets d’aménagement (particulier, promoteur, Opération d’intérêt Métropolitain ou National) pour que les gens bénéficient de cadres de vie apaisés, en intégrant les impacts sonores comme facteur clé dans les décisions d’aménagement. Actuellement ce n’est pas une priorité.

Le reste du README est en anglais, dans un souci de cohérence et d'accessibilité.

## 🧰 Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- GEOS library for spatial data processing:

  ```bash
  # On Ubuntu/Debian
  sudo apt-get install libgeos-dev

  # On macOS
  brew install geos

  # On CentOS/RHEL
  sudo yum install geos-devel
  ```

## 🐘 Start the PostgreSQL Database with PostGIS

The project uses PostgreSQL with PostGIS extension for spatial data. Launch it using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This will start a PostgreSQL database with the PostGIS extension on port 5433.

## ⚡ Quick Setup

For a quick setup of all virtual environments:

```bash
./setup-dev.sh
```

This will create and configure all virtual environments for the different components of the project. You can then activate the environment you need to work with.

## 🥣 Data ingestion

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source ingestion-venv/bin/activate
```

### Launch seed raw data

```bash
cd ingestion
./launch-ingestion.sh
```

## 🧪 DBT

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source dbt-venv/bin/activate
```

### Configure dbt Profile

```bash
./setup-dbt.sh
```

Optional : edit `~/.dbt/profiles.yml` with your database credentials if you do not use the docker-compose db.

### From dbt folder

```bash
cd dbt
```

### Verify Configuration

```bash
dbt debug
```

### Run Models

```bash
dbt run
```

## 🚀 FastApi

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source fastapi-venv/bin/activate
```

### From fastapi folder

```bash
cd fastapi
```

### Configure Environment Variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

### Run the Application

```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

The API will be available at http://127.0.0.1:8000

### API Documentation

- Swagger UI: http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://127.0.0.1:8000/redoc

## 🗺️ Frontend

### Install Dependencies

```
cd frontend
cp .env.example .env
yarn
```

### Start the Application

```
yarn start
```

The frontend will be available at http://localhost:3000

## 📁 Strapi (CMS)

### Install Dependencies

```
cd strapi
cp .env.example .env
yarn
```

### Start the Application

```
yarn develop
```

The strapi interface will be available at http://localhost:1337

## ☁️ Deploying on Scalingo

Add scalingo remotes

```
git remote add scalingo-fastapi git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-back.git
git remote add scalingo-frontend git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-front.git
git remote add scalingo-cms git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-cms.git
```

Deploy FastAPI last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix fastapi scalingo-fastapi main
```

Deploy Frontend last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix frontend scalingo-frontend main
```

Deploy Strapi CMS last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix cms scalingo-cms main
```

## 🧬 Macro architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Ingestion["Ingestion"]
        A[Script d'ingestion]
    end

    subgraph PostgreSQL["PostgreSQL - Database diagbruit"]
        PW[Données brutes : schema public_workspace]
        B0[DBT: Traitements intermédiaires dans public_workspace]
        C[Données finales : schema public]
    end

    subgraph FastAPI["FastAPI"]
        D[Endpoint /diag/generate]
        D1[Calcul d'intersections]
        D2[Algorithme de scoring]
        D3[Préconisations]
    end

    subgraph Frontend["Frontend"]
        E[OpenLayers Map]
    end

    subgraph Strapi["Strapi CMS"]
        F[Éditeur de préconisations]
    end

    A --> PW
    PW --> B0
    B0 --> C
    D --> D2
    D --> D1
    D1 --> C
    D --> D3
    D3 --> F
    E --> D

    classDef ingestion fill:#1a936f,stroke:#88d498,stroke-width:2px,color:#f3e9d2
    classDef dbt fill:#114b5f,stroke:#456990,stroke-width:2px,color:#e4fde1
    classDef postgres fill:#f45b69,stroke:#6b2737,stroke-width:2px,color:#f6e8ea
    classDef fastapi fill:#540d6e,stroke:#9e0059,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffcbf2
    classDef frontend fill:#3a506b,stroke:#1c2541,stroke-width:2px,color:#c2dfe3

    class A ingestion
    class B0,B1,B2 dbt
    class PW,C postgres
    class D,D1,D2,D3 fastapi
    class E frontend
```

## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
diagbruit/
│
├── fastapi/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── main.py
│   │   ├── database.py
│   │   ├── models/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── schemas/
│   │   └── utils/
│   │
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── requirements.txt
│
├── dbt/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── macros/
│   ├── tests/
│   ├── dbt_project.yml
│   ├── profiles.yml.example
│   └── requirements.txt
│
├── ingestion/
│   ├── inputs/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── ingest_shapefiles.py
│   └── requirements.txt
|
├── frontend/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   └── tsconfig.json
│
├── cms/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── config/
│   ├── database/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   └── types/
│
├── setup-dev.sh
├── setup-dbt.sh
└── docker-compose.yml
```

Commit message:

fix(cms): node version more permissive and specify in readme

README.md, after:

# 🙉 diagBruit 🙉

Remettre le bruit comme un critère important dans la construction des projets d’aménagement (particulier, promoteur, Opération d’intérêt Métropolitain ou National) pour que les gens bénéficient de cadres de vie apaisés, en intégrant les impacts sonores comme facteur clé dans les décisions d’aménagement. Actuellement ce n’est pas une priorité.

Le reste du README est en anglais, dans un souci de cohérence et d'accessibilité.

## 🧰 Prerequisites

- Python 3.8+
- Node.js v22 is required. You can check your version with:
  ```bash
  node -v
  ```
  If needed, install or switch to Node 22 using a version manager like nvm:
  ```bash
  nvm install 22
  nvm use 22
  ```
- Yarn
  ```bash
  npm install -g yarn
  ```
- GEOS library for spatial data processing:

  ```bash
  # On Ubuntu/Debian
  sudo apt-get install libgeos-dev

  # On macOS
  brew install geos

  # On CentOS/RHEL
  sudo yum install geos-devel
  ```

## 🐘 Start the PostgreSQL Database with PostGIS

The project uses PostgreSQL with PostGIS extension for spatial data. Launch it using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

This will start a PostgreSQL database with the PostGIS extension on port 5433.

## ⚡ Quick Setup

For a quick setup of all virtual environments:

```bash
./setup-dev.sh
```

This will create and configure all virtual environments for the different components of the project. You can then activate the environment you need to work with.

## 🥣 Data ingestion

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source ingestion-venv/bin/activate
```

### Launch seed raw data

```bash
cd ingestion
./launch-ingestion.sh
```

## 🧪 DBT

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source dbt-venv/bin/activate
```

### Configure dbt Profile

```bash
./setup-dbt.sh
```

Optional : edit `~/.dbt/profiles.yml` with your database credentials if you do not use the docker-compose db.

### From dbt folder

```bash
cd dbt
```

### Verify Configuration

```bash
dbt debug
```

### Run Models

```bash
dbt run
```

## 🚀 FastApi

### Launch dedicated Virtual Environment

```bash
source fastapi-venv/bin/activate
```

### From fastapi folder

```bash
cd fastapi
```

### Configure Environment Variables

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

### Run the Application

```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

The API will be available at http://127.0.0.1:8000

### API Documentation

- Swagger UI: http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://127.0.0.1:8000/redoc

## 🗺️ Frontend

### Install Dependencies

```
cd frontend
cp .env.example .env
yarn
```

### Start the Application

```
yarn start
```

The frontend will be available at http://localhost:3000

## 📁 Strapi (CMS)

### Install Dependencies

```
cd strapi
cp .env.example .env
yarn
```

### Start the Application

```
yarn develop
```

The strapi interface will be available at http://localhost:1337

## ☁️ Deploying on Scalingo

Add scalingo remotes

```
git remote add scalingo-fastapi git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-back.git
git remote add scalingo-frontend git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-front.git
git remote add scalingo-cms git@ssh.osc-fr1.scalingo.com:diag-bruit-cms.git
```

Deploy FastAPI last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix fastapi scalingo-fastapi main
```

Deploy Frontend last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix frontend scalingo-frontend main
```

Deploy Strapi CMS last commit

```
git subtree push --prefix cms scalingo-cms main
```

## 🧬 Macro architecture

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph Ingestion["Ingestion"]
        A[Script d'ingestion]
    end

    subgraph PostgreSQL["PostgreSQL - Database diagbruit"]
        PW[Données brutes : schema public_workspace]
        B0[DBT: Traitements intermédiaires dans public_workspace]
        C[Données finales : schema public]
    end

    subgraph FastAPI["FastAPI"]
        D[Endpoint /diag/generate]
        D1[Calcul d'intersections]
        D2[Algorithme de scoring]
        D3[Préconisations]
    end

    subgraph Frontend["Frontend"]
        E[OpenLayers Map]
    end

    subgraph Strapi["Strapi CMS"]
        F[Éditeur de préconisations]
    end

    A --> PW
    PW --> B0
    B0 --> C
    D --> D2
    D --> D1
    D1 --> C
    D --> D3
    D3 --> F
    E --> D

    classDef ingestion fill:#1a936f,stroke:#88d498,stroke-width:2px,color:#f3e9d2
    classDef dbt fill:#114b5f,stroke:#456990,stroke-width:2px,color:#e4fde1
    classDef postgres fill:#f45b69,stroke:#6b2737,stroke-width:2px,color:#f6e8ea
    classDef fastapi fill:#540d6e,stroke:#9e0059,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffcbf2
    classDef frontend fill:#3a506b,stroke:#1c2541,stroke-width:2px,color:#c2dfe3

    class A ingestion
    class B0,B1,B2 dbt
    class PW,C postgres
    class D,D1,D2,D3 fastapi
    class E frontend
```

## 🗂️ Project Structure

```
diagbruit/
│
├── fastapi/
│   ├── app/
│   │   ├── main.py
│   │   ├── database.py
│   │   ├── models/
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── schemas/
│   │   └── utils/
│   │
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── requirements.txt
│
├── dbt/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── macros/
│   ├── tests/
│   ├── dbt_project.yml
│   ├── profiles.yml.example
│   └── requirements.txt
│
├── ingestion/
│   ├── inputs/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── ingest_shapefiles.py
│   └── requirements.txt
|
├── frontend/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   └── tsconfig.json
│
├── cms/
│   ├── .env.example
│   ├── package.json
│   ├── config/
│   ├── database/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   └── types/
│
├── setup-dev.sh
├── setup-dbt.sh
└── docker-compose.yml
```
